---
aliases: 
tags:
  - Study
  - 10th/SST/Geo/Ch5-Minerals-and-Energy-Res
date: December 17, 2023
---
# Definition
## Nuclear Energy
It is generated by altering the structure of atoms that releases heat and energy which is used to generate electric power.
- Uranium and thorium are found in Aravalli ranges of Rajasthan and Jharkhand and monazite sands of Kerala which are used for generating nuclear or atomic energy.
## Solar Energy
## Wind Energy
Nagarcoil and Jaisalmer (Rajasthan) are very famous for effective use of wind energy in India.
## Bio Gas
- It is generated by the decomposition of organic matter like shrubs, farm waste, animal and human wastes in biogas plants.
- It has higher thermal efficiency than Kerosene, dung cake and charcoal.
- It is cheap, environment friendly and prevents loss of trees used for firewood.
- It is used as a fuel for cooking and lighting in rural areas.
- It also provides improved quality of manure.
- Biogas plants are set up by municipal, cooperatives and also by individuals. 
- Biogas plants are also known as 'Gobar gas plants' in rural India
## Tidal Energy
In India, the Gulf of Khambhat, the Gulf of Kutch in Gujarat on the Western coast and Gangetic delta in Sunderban regions of West Bengal provide ideal conditions for utilizing tidal energy.
## Geo-thermal Energy
- Geothermal energy exists because the Earth grows hotter with increase in depth. At some places, this geothermal gradient is so high that high temperatures are found at a shallow depth.
- Groundwater present in these areas absorb heat from the rocks and becomes hot and rises as steam. This steam is used to drive turbines for the generation of electricity.
- Parvati valley near Manikarn in Himachal Pradesh and Puga valley in Ladakh are two experimental projects to produce geothermal energy.

---
# Backlinks
[[Energy Resources]]

---
# Flashcards


---

%%
Dates: December 17, 2023
%%